welcome to review recapped
today we will be showing you an american
horror thriller movie named
deliver us from evil
spoilers ahead
sit back and enjoy
the movie opens in iraq in 2010
a small group of soldiers are running
through a war zone in the desert when
they encounter a man-made underground
cave
the group leader lieutenant griggs sends
two soldiers jimmy and mike to look
inside
jimmy is recording underground
the camera light starts to flicker and
then eventually dies out completely
jimmy and santino are heard screaming
and then the night vision comes on to
reveal hundreds of bats exiting the cave
around the two men
santino produces a light and walks over
a river of human skulls to the back of
the cave despite jimmy's pleas to leave
he illuminates the back wall of the cave
which has a latin characters written on
it the movie then flashes forward to
present day 2013 in new york
detective ralph is seen trying to give
mouth-to-mouth to a very small kid which
is revealed to be a dead baby
the coroner asks him repeatedly to let
go but he has trouble doing so and is
clearly affected by the experience
the next scene shows sarchie and his
partner butler patrolling the streets of
new york they hear a call coming in
about a domestic dispute case and sarchi
says they'll take it butler an
adrenaline junkie is excited because
apparently sarchie has a radar that
causes him to take cases that take
unusual often violent turns the call is
about jimmy trattner they pull up to his
house and jimmy answers the door
sarchie needs to see his wife so jimmy
lets them inside the wife sitting on the
sofa lifts her head to show she has been
badly beaten
sarchie and butler immediately try to
arrest jimmy who fights back with a
knife slashing sarchie's arm and then
sprints away they eventually catch him
with sarchi beating him so badly that
butler has to pull him away and arrest
him
sarchi notices jimmy's fingernails are
bleeding after sarchie gets stitches in
his arm the two get a call for the local
zoo
upon arriving the police at the scene
tell them a woman has thrown her
two-year-old boy into the lion's
enclosure luckily the pit is being
repainted so the lions are not there but
the boy was badly injured in the ongoing
chaos the woman escaped and the power
went out
sarchie and butler split up and look for
the woman
sarchi notices the animals are going
crazy and eventually finds the woman
trying to dig into the ground with her
bare fingernails
she is also constantly repeating the
lyrics to a song by the doors
while arresting her they notice a man in
a hood presumably the painter in the
lion enclosure
sarchie wants to talk to him but he just
slowly walks away farther into the
lion's pit sarchi follows him when
suddenly the two lions are out in the
enclosure it is shown that he barely
escapes upon taking the woman named jane
to the station they are met by a priest
named mendoza
he wants to know more about jane's
behavior saying he's been close with her
for years and that she isn't insane
he says there are two types of evil
secondary evil which man does and
primary evil which is something else
entirely he believes jane is possessed
sarchi doesn't believe the priest but
takes his card anyway
the two are filling out the paperwork
for the night when sarchie gets a video
message from his wife jen and his young
daughter christina saying goodnight
butler tells him the zoo will get them
the video for the night's incidents in a
few days
sarchi overhears two other detectives
talking about a case where a woman got a
call from her father who's been dead for
seven years to shut the door the damn
door
seeing a connection between the woman in
the zoo in this case sarchi offers to
take the case off their hands he and
butler go to a house where the family
says they think the house is possessed
and that strange sounds have been coming
from the basement which was recently
being painted
none of the lights in their house work
none of the candles will burn and every
time they replace a light bulb that
burns out within a few hours
sarchie and butler go down the stairs to
investigate
the place is a mess and hasn't been
touched for some time butler goes
upstairs for air and sarchie's radio
starts making static for no reason he
eventually finds a body in the basement
rolled up in a tarpaulin later to be
revealed to be lieutenant griggs
sarchie questions the family and they
identify his picture as a painter they
say there was another pain or two but
they didn't see his face as he always
had a hood on
sarchie goes home to see his wife and
daughter
the next morning jen and christina are
going to church and jen tells sartree
that she is pregnant jen tells christina
he used to go to church but doesn't
anymore as he don't believe in it later
it's shown that sarchie and butler go to
griggs's apartment and discover he was
jane's husband
his apartment is a wreck they find
another picture with lieutenant griggs
jimmy and a man named santino in it upon
looking him up they discover all three
were dishonorably discharged for
attacking an army chaplain
they served time and got out a couple of
years ago
sarchi recognizes santino as the painter
from the lion enclosure and they further
finds that he is the painter from the
house
lieutenant griggs was found to have
killed himself by drinking paint thinner
but santino had to have been the one to
wrap him in the tarpaulin the zoo has
finally sent over the footage from the
night the detectives were there
first they watched the video of jane
she is seen walking past the lion pit
with a stroller when she spots centino
there painting over something that looks
like an inscription he turns to face her
and she starts to shake violently and
then throws her child into the pit he
turns back and continues painting as if
nothing happened
next they watch the video of sarchie in
the lion pit santino is shown walking
away from sarchie and turning a corner
to let the lions out of where they're
being kept seemingly talking to them
sarchie hears static again even though
his radio is off and children's laughter
then a bloodied man pops up on the
screen for a split second startling him
butler doesn't hear or see anything
meanwhile there is a scene where
christina is home going to sleep
she hears scratching under her bed and
runs to her mom's room screaming
sarchie goes home for the night and is
met by jen who is angry at him because
he yelled at his daughter and because
even when he's home he's not really
there he gets mad and tells her he's had
a terrible week
she says he doesn't talk to her anymore
and he says he'll try to be better he
goes to check on his daughter and finds
nothing in her room until he sees the
bloodied man over her bed in the mirror
he turns back around and the man is gone
sarchie continues to hear static in
children's voices so he goes to meet the
priest mendoza at a pop
mendoza is drinking but explains he used
to be hooked on heroin and then it
eventually led him to god when he hit
rock bottom
he let sarchie listen to an audio clip
of an exorcism of a woman claudia and
her five-year-old daughter
the clip deeply affects sarchie
sarchie lets mendoza take a look at the
clips and mendoza doesn't hear the
voices or see the man however mendoza
claims sarchie's radar might actually be
a heightened awareness to all things
occult and evil which is both a gift and
a curse
throughout the movie sarchie's family
situation is becoming worse
he is distant from his wife and
christina's room is seemingly becoming
increasingly haunted
one night she hears the scratching again
and her door won't open
another night her toys come alive on
their own and move toward her
jen is mad at sarchi saying christina
doesn't feel safe in her own home
because she needs her father
jane in a mental ward incapacitates the
physician and escapes
sarchi goes back to jimmy's wife's house
and sees the recordings from the war
including the one from the beginning of
the film
mrs trattner says she hasn't seen jimmy
since he got arrested though he is out
of jail
sarchi views the recording and sees the
inscription
he discovers the inscription is
everywhere santino is seen painting the
zoo the house with the haunted basement
the cave in iraq even jimmy's apartment
mendoza explains the inscription as a
portal to hell
this explains why all the references are
to the doors a type of portal
butler and sarchi find santino's address
they
along with mendoza
go to his apartment to wait for him
butler is covering the front and
sarchies in the car with mendoza in the
back
mendoza says sarchi needs to confess to
god for him to help any further before
sarchie can do so he spots santino
coming back into the apartment complex
he and butler enter his apartment but he
isn't there they try to chase him down
but they get split up resulting in
sarchie getting attacked by a possessed
jimmy who appears in the basement and
butler getting trapped on the stairs
mendoza is able to subdue jimmy with his
cross
butler is stabbed to death in the
stairwell by santino back at mendoza's
apartment sarchi is upset about not
being able to save butler
mendoza tells him to confess to him
he does and explains he has killed a man
out of revenge before mendoza absolves
him of his sins
when sarchie is driving home jane jumps
to her death onto his car when he is
calling it in he gets a call from jen's
phone only to realize it's santino on
the phone who has kidnapped his wife and
daughter
he races home to find santino and calls
back up they arrest santino and bring
him in
mendoza and sarchi are forced to do an
exorcism
it is long and challenging for both with
sarchi at one point only being able to
hear a song by the doors
eventually they expel the demon
and sarchi finds his wife and daughter
unharmed it is revealed that after the
birth of his second daughter
sarchie retired from the police force
and works with mendoza to this day
the film ends with the baptism of the
sarki's second child
thanks for watching
make sure to subscribe and turn on
notifications to enjoy more movies like
this